hello movie fans and welcome back to
another full movie recap with movie
reveals in today's video we're going to
break down the brilliant fantasy movie
called reign of fire
warning guys spoiler alert
yes i'm afraid i'm going to spill the
beans about what the movie is about
including all the best bits of which
there are many but that's half the fun
with my recaps you know that already
during underground construction in
london around the year 2008 a huge
hibernating dragon is discovered in
springs to life instantly incinerating
all construction workers with its fiery
breath the only survivor is the 12 year
old quinn abercrombie whose mother was
chief of the construction crew quinn and
his mother are suddenly trapped in a
shaft elevator and his mother is crushed
when the dragon escapes
soon thousands of them work their way
through europe and eventually the rest
of the world burning everything feeding
on the ash and multiplying at an
exponential rate the world powers use
their most powerful weapons but this
only hastens the destruction of the
planet
in 2020 the adult quinn played by
christian bale leads a colony of
survivors in a medieval stone castle in
northumberland a lonely bastion of
mankind afraid of the sky and the
dragons that could attack any time their
hope is to outlast the dragons wait
until they die out again as they
presumably did several times before and
go into hibernation
unfortunately the people are beginning
to starve while waiting for their crops
to ripen quinn finds it difficult to
keep members of his colony from
harvesting their crops before they
matured one morning a small team sneaks
out to harvest tomatoes
they draw the attention of an attacking
dragon that burns a few of them and
torches most of the remainder of the
crop
quin and his friend creedy rescue the
survivors in armored vehicles using
firefighting water cannons and
flame-proof suits
at night creedy and quinn entertained
the kids of the colony with a
play-active rendition of star wars they
also have the kids recited prayer
warning them to watch the skies for
dragons and dig tunnels to survive
one day a team of american dragon
slayers arrive in an armored convoy led
by denton van zane and bringing a
chieftain tank and an agusta a 109
helicopter piloted by alex the american
team's request to enter the castle
grounds is first refused by
quinn vanzan shows quinn a dragon's
tooth he wears around his neck saying
that it came from the first one he
killed in the american midwest
van zane had figured out a way to attack
dragons when they are most vulnerable
dragons have excellent vision at both
day and night but during magic hour
their vision is impaired and what they
see is unfocused
mistrusting but needing each other the
two leaders quinn and van zand worked
together and eventually managed to kill
the dragon that destroyed the crop
vanzan's team uses sophisticated
triangulation system using small remote
tracking devices that allow parachuting
commandos to draw dragons into the range
of vanzan's arsenal weapons
two of the three skydivers are killed by
the dragon one lands safely and the
operation is successful banzaian himself
kills the driving when quentin riding on
horseback is able to lure close enough
to a large harpoon cannon
the inhabitants of the castle having not
seen a dragon slayed celebrate the
victory that night only to be chastised
by van zand who is disgusted by their
behavior having lost three of his team
in the battle
afterward van zand and alex tell quinn
that all dragons his unit have
encountered so far a female their theory
is that they are like fish the females
later eggs around the world then the
male comes and fertilize them leaving
them with the theory that there is only
a single male within the whole dragon
population worldwide
the next morning van zand requests that
members of the colony join him in
hunting the male in london all are
reluctant and van zann announces he will
choose volunteers quinn objects and the
two fight with each other van zand
gaining the upper hand
furious van zand leaves anyway
van zane and his unit discover a
roadblock on the desolate highway to
london
manzan then sends alex to find a new way
around the male dragon soon arrives and
annihilates nearly the entire army
breathing fire on van zan's armored
column and incinerating all but him
alone
the male dragon follows their route back
to the castle and destroys it
[Music]
the castle inhabitants are however saved
by hiding in an underground shelter that
is designed to survive the intense heat
but quinn's dear friend creedy is killed
as he tries to go save more people in
the castle
creedy bravely slams the door to the
basement shelter shut just as the male's
fire fills the castle
the children are terrified and quitting
leads them all in their prayer to watch
the skies
defeated van zand returns to the castle
rescuing quinn and the surviving
children from the castle cellar
quinn tells vanzant that he will join
them to hunt the male dragon in london
they use the helicopter to follow the
coastline to the city unnoticed where
they learn that the dragons are
beginning to starve and are resorting to
cannibalism as they look over the ruins
of the london skyline the male suddenly
appears and eats one of the females from
the hundreds that are roosting in the
city's towers
[Music]
vanzane's plan is to fire an explosive
charge placed on a crossbow into the
dragon's mouth during the brief moment
it inhales drawing air to produce fire
van zam will be the bait stationing
himself on top of a tall smokestack
his one shot of the crossbow misses
entering the dragon's mouth
the dragon rushes van zand's position
vanzan fanatically leaps from his perch
attacking the dryden with no more than
his axe
i'm not sure what he thought he could
achieve by doing that and is swallowed
by the dragon in mid-air
quid and alex are able to lure the
dragon to street level the dragon hunts
them however it is magic hour when the
dragon's vision is impaired after
recovering the drop crossbow bolts quinn
is miraculously able to fire one into
the dragon's mouth where it explodes
thus killing the beast
[Music]
about three months after the male dragon
is slain quinn and alex are seen
erecting a radio tower and receive a
transmission from another group of
survivors in france the dragons have
been dying off quickly saying that he
cannot speak the language well quinn
gives the duty of answering the french
survivors to jared
the end
hope you enjoyed watching this movie
recap make sure to subscribe and don't
forget to hit the notification button
it might not seem like much but it
really helps us out with the algorithm
and allows more people to find our
videos thanks for watching and see you
again soon